wiki/1

§ Purple Dinosaur

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

**Purple Dinosaurs** have appeared in a number of //fictions// and //toy lines//.

The ones I am aware of include:

• **Dino** from **The Flinestones** cartoon who goes back to at least the year 1960,
• **Tyrantisaurus Rex** from the **Masters of the Universe** toy line who goes back to at least the year 1987,
• **Dinosorb** from the **Masters of the Universe** toy line who goes back to at least the year 1987,
• **Barney** from the **Barney & Friends** children's television show who goes back to at least the year 1992,
• **Megatron** from the **Beast Wars** cartoon and toy line who goes back to at least the year 1996,
• **Magmatron** from the Japanese version of the **Beast Wars** toy line and the **Beast Wars Neo** cartoon who goes back to at least the year 1999,
* **Reptar** from the **Rugrats** cartoon who is usually depicted as a //green// Gozilla-like creature but is also sometimes depicted as a //purple// Gozilla-like creature goes back to at least the year 2022.

With the exception of **Dinosorb** all these **purple dinosaurs** are bipedal (assumingly) carnivorous dinosaurs.
And usually something that looks similar to a //tyrannosaurus rex//.

I wonder how much previous //purple dinosaurs// influenced later //purple dinosaurs//.
And thus is it a [[meme]] and is [[social-learning]] and [[cultural-evolution]] at play.

§§ Dino

[[the-flintstones]] is a cartoon whose stories are set in the //stone age// in an ahistorical fictional world where //stone age// humans exist with dinosaurs.
Each story usually follows the lives of //Fred Flintstone//, his //Wilma Flintstone//, their baby daughter //Pebbles Flintstone//, their pet dinosaur **Dino**, as well as their pet //saber-toothed cat// named //Baby Puss//.
With //Fred Flintstone// usually being the main character.

**The Flintstones** cartoon also frequently included the charactes //Barney Rubble//, his wife //Betty Rubble//, their adopted son //Bamm-Bamm//, and their pet hopparoo (i.e., a kangaroo-like creature) named //Hoppy//.

Other characters that appeared from time to time included: //George Slate//, //Arnold// (the paperboy), //Joe Rockhead//, //Sam Slagheap//, //The Great Gazoo//, as well as many others.

**The Flintstones** first aired on television in the year 1960.
New episodes were being produced up to the year 1966.
And re-runs of the **The Flintstones** aired on television for decades after that.

During its time, **The Flintstones** was an extremely popular television show in the United States, Canada, and other parts of the world.

(The success of **The Simpsons** is often compared to **The Flintstones**.)

**The Flintstones** inspired numerous spin-offs such as [[flintstones-vitamins]] for kids, the [[bedrock-city]] theme park for kids, and [[pebbles-cereal]].

**Dino**, the Flintstone's family pet, had skin color that varied.
He sometimes had blue colored skin with a green colored snout.
He sometimes had green colored skin with a green colored snout.
He sometimes had burgundy colored skin with a pink colored snout.
**He sometimes had light purple colored skin with a tan colored snout.**
**And he sometimes had purple colored skin with a tan colored snout.**

In //The Flintstones// fiction, **Dino** is said to be a **snorkasaurus** — a fictional //prosauropod// like dinosaur.

Although there may have been earlier instances (outside of //The Flintstones//), **Dino** is the earliest example of **purple dinosaur** that I am aware of.
Given how popular //The Flintstones// was — it was so popular that it was a //household name// — it may have (directly or indirectly) influenced some, most, or all future incarnations of the **purple dinosaur** meme.

§§ Tyrantisaurus Rex

§§ Dinosorb

§§ Barney

§§ Megatron

§§ Magmatron

§§ Reptar
